You're turning into real entrepreneurial capital.
I am.
No, no, no.
All right, Dave, tell me about this book.
Well, Nick, it'd be funny, right?
Sure, Nick.
You remember Iron John?
You remember Iron John.
Yeah, I do.
I can't say that I read it, but I know it.
No one read it, I hope, you know.
But I'm looking at these guys.
A lot of people bought it.
Think about a lot of books.
You don't know that anybody ever actually reads.
I mean, the ultimate example, I think, being Thin Thighs and Thirty Days, which is a book that I think everybody in America bought.
You didn't write every woman.
I didn't notice America's thighs getting thinner.
But with Iron John... How about Stomachs?
Yeah.
Abs of Steel, all those books.
I was looking at the men's movement thing and all this talk about men needing to get in touch with their deep inner selves.
And I'm thinking, what deep inner selves?
And I don't know anybody who's got a deep inner self.
I hang around with guys all my life, and I've always found that when we're really, really talking about what we really feel, it usually is pretty shallow.
So I decided I could write a book about it, kind of counteract the whole men's movement thing,
and at the same time do something good for humanity, which is lower women... Well, I mean, that's incidental, of course.
I don't mind doing actual harm for humanity either, but lower women's expectations about guys.
Lower their... Well, yeah, my feeling is that too many books try to make both men and women, males and females, understand each other better, and it's time we accepted that guys will never understand anything better because they don't really care too much
The key will be to get women who do care to accept that they're in a relationship with a guy.
They should view it as not so much two members of the same species trying to get along, but they, women, intelligence-sensitive, thoughtful beings, and Labrador retrievers would be a better analogy for the guy.
I have a laugh, by the way.
Great sweet creature.
Great dogs.
I love Labrador retrievers.
Well, picture a Labrador retriever that's learned how to operate a remote control, and you have a guy.
That's good.
That's the basic premise of it, yeah.
Is it easy to be funny?
Well, I think it's hard to be funny.
I think a lot of people are funny when you talk to them.
In fact, I know many, many people who are far funnier than I am when you talk to them.
I think it's very hard to write funny.
A lot of people try it and fail horribly.
I'm sure you've met many, many people who are
or great fun to talk to, but humor that fails in writing fails pretty badly, worse than Elvis than the other kind.
Likewise, if you meet humor writers, you'll note that even though they may have a good sense of humor, a lot of them are not particularly funny to talk to.
In fact, they can be kind of morose, serious people.
So I think it's this kind of weird skill that people develop where you combine
You have to have a good sense of humor, but you also have to have this real kind of driven mind.
You're driven to do something that's utterly worthless, really.
You're not trying to write anything great or important or significant.
You're just trying to make people laugh.
But that's hard, so you have to really think it's important and serious, and not too many people do.
Most people think when they try to write humor, they figure it's got to be easy, and then they produce crappy humor.
What kind of pressure...
I mean, now, you talk about syndication.
You must be in, what, how many hundreds?
It's around somewhere between 300 and 400 papers.
300 and 400 papers.
Yeah.
And you're distributed by whom?
Well, Knight Ritter is the main one, and then also Tribune Media Services.
So you can actually cross-pollinate like that?
Well, what it is is Knight Ritter only sells – Tribune Media Services sells –
This is a business question.
A business question.
Tribune Media Service, Knight Ritter.
What if Knight Ritter wanted to pick up my column for some of their papers, for instance?
Could I still keep my other papers for myself?
Yes, as long as they're not Knight Ritter clients.
The way it works with me is Knight Ritter syndicates my column to anybody who buys a Knight Ritter wire, but there are some papers who don't buy the whole wire who would still like to get my column.
Do they pay you a flat rate?
Then it gets negotiated.
Oh, Knight Ritter does.
Yes.
But it's, yes.
But they just changed it.
Now it's pretty much based on the number of papers.
Okay.
But for a long time, it was pretty much a flat rate through them, and then any additional papers, that was based traditional syndicate arrangement.
I'm talking about UPI, which is picking me up, especially for foreign stuff, but I don't even know how this is.
You'd have to find out how they're going to work it, because they'll have to know who's.
But they have this thing called, you know, special buy.
Yeah.
And I think it's like on the honor system.
I see.
Where it says, you know, if you want to use this, contact me.
If I get 50 papers on my own, they're mine.
I don't have to.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
If they get UPI and you had them before, I mean, I don't know.
You'd have to work that out.
I'm sorry.
Let's go back to your.
But definitely you should.
But anyways, my point is three or four hundred.
Yeah, something like that.
A lot of these are small papers.
I love the small papers.
Do you hear from these people?
Oh, yeah.
I hear from everybody.
Well, here, this over here.
See, this amount of stuff, this is all... That's correspondence.
Letters from readers.
And you answer them?
Yeah, I answer them.
I have little cards made up that I answer them with.
And I'm a master at writing a one-word answer.
Thanks, or moo, if it was a cow-related letter.
Do you scrupulously answer them?
I do, unless it's, you know, completely insane.
Well, so I rules that about 90% of my men.
No, I...
I read it all and answer most of it.
It's a wonderful thing, first of all, because I get a lot of stuff from readers.
If a toilet explodes anywhere in the world, I will hear about it.
I will be like the central clearinghouse for that story worldwide.
But also, you get an idea of what people think is funny and what they've done, what they're like, who your readers are.
It's like the vital signs.
You can't write into a vacuum.
Exactly, and I think it's a big danger in colonizing journalism in general.
You know, you start to associate with other journalists and other columnists, and you actually think that's part of the world.
You know, the classic Washington, D.C.
syndrome, where you believe Washington, D.C.
in any way reflects the planet Earth, which, of course, it doesn't, you know.
So I like to keep reading what people out there actually are interested in or think is funny.
And it always amazes me.
what it is, it turns out, to really matter to people.
Like, I once wrote a column, simple column, about dumb song lyrics.
I mean, you know, there's no particular... And I just opened this dam, you know, this incredible rage poured out.
You know this song about the horse with no name?
I hate that song!
You know, blood dripping off the letters.
You never know what people are going to be excited about, but it almost never is the federal budget deficit.
Almost never what we're talking about on the front page.
Now, do you take these, you said, I don't want to paraphrase you, but do you take these seriously?
I mean, is this?
I take the letter.
This isn't, I mean, this.
Oh, well, it's my job.
That's why we're talking about the book, obviously, but I'm talking, you know, I'll deal with the book.
No, I understand.
Do I take the letter seriously?
No, do you take the column seriously?
Yeah, I mean, in the sense that,
You know, like if you were a clown, a circus clown, you know, and you're going to take a pie in the face or squirt somebody with a flower, you're going to take that seriously.
You're going to want to take the pie in the face so it looks really just right funny.
You know, you're going to work it all out.
And then when you do it, what?
You're doing a stupid thing.
But you're a professional clown, you know.
That's kind of me.
I have no illusion that what I'm writing is serious or important.
And I know if I stopped writing it, the world would go on exactly as before and maybe even better.
But I do take, if I'm going to write about, you know, guys going off a ski jump in a canoe, by God, I will make it as clear and accurate and funny an account of it as I can.
I guess when I started a question about the numbers of papers, I mean, the pressure must be enormous to really produce something.
That's funny.
I write one column a week.
I write other stuff, but I write one column per week.
Yeah, I do feel pressure, but I think it's better if you're a columnist than if you're an author of books and nothing else.
Because if you're a columnist, yeah, there is the pressure to do it, but then once you did it, it's done and you get to do another one the next week.
If you write a book, like if you're Norman Mailer and you come out with a book every three years,
Every reviewer in the world reviews it.
It's a big review.
It's the major review that week.
About two-thirds of the reviewers are going to be looking to shoot you down because you're Norman.
And then you're going to have to live with that for the next couple of years, whatever you did.
The beauty of doing both, of course, is that you do, like Buddy Meyer is a jazz musician, and he writes things too, and he said that.
The beauty about music is that the response is immediate.
Exactly.
I really envy...
musicians, stand-up comics.
Yeah, you do it, it's done.
And journalism to a degree gives you that.
Yeah, more so than books.
Because you're out there at least every week.
That's right.
You know, you mentioned Mailer.
It's not three years, it's five years.
Yeah, it's overdue.
It's supposed to be, yeah.
Hey, Harlot's Ghost was 91, so this thing is four years of the making.
Yeah, and it's going to be this huge publishing event, way out of proportion to the amount of books it will sell.
I mean, it may sell well, but it's not going to sell like
look at bob carrow's piece in the new york hamster if you had a chance i did not see the times well it's a record piece it's about his writing up in the new york public library working seven eight years in a book in this little room you know i mean you wonder i know and if it's not really blow this i know what i've been doing i mean i could be like a real out here they're gonna make fun of me and and one critic a critic who spent maybe
Two hours will be with your book.
Exactly.
Can write a review that will really... In 90 minutes, and if it's some young hot shot that really wants your ass on his staff... Exactly.
You can be hurt.
Being a book person, you know, I've been writing about books for 20 years.
I reviewed a book once in the New York Times, and the book really was... I was a very well-known author, and he wrote a letter.
I was absolutely right with the review, but I wounded this guy, and I lost my taste for it.
I said, I... You don't want to do that again.
I never want to do that again.
I mean, you could feel the pain coming out.
I said, being in the New York Times, I heard that book.
I know.
I... I said, never again.
I'd rather not do it.
I just...
You know, unless it's Madonna with its version.
Right, in which case, I'll help you.
She's not a book writer.
And that's not a book that she came out with.
And she came out with it the same time I came out with it.
And you couldn't even look at it because it was in plastic.
You had to buy it.
You're going to buy a record and you can't listen to it anymore.
I particularly resented the Madonna book because it came out the same week one of my books came out.
So I went on tour, and the first question I always got was, so what do you think of Madonna's book?
I ended up signing Madonna's book.
But I used to, long ago, occasionally write book reviews.
You know, a new book review editor, like Becky Sinclair, now at the Times.
She's gone now.
That's right.
There was some big flaps.
No, it was five years.
They say it wasn't a flap, but it was five years.
You basically get five years on that gig.
And then you're out.
and it's Chip McGrath in there, which is really concerning me.
I did write some reviews, and sometimes I was picked to write them because people knew I could be a real attack dog, so I could make fun of things.
There's a difference between making fun and mocking them.
Don't you agree with that?
Yes.
I hate a mocking reader.
I was not vicious.
I never mocked that book I was mentioning either.
It's the same as you said.
I just stopped wanting to do it.
Once you have a book come out and you experience the reviewing process and everything, it's not that I think it's wrong for people to review books.
It's just that
I don't think I could do it anymore, because I'd want it always to be some book I liked, or I wouldn't want to do it.
That's the beauty of my column, by the way, is that people say, why is everything you write about you always like?
And I say, because I choose to do the things I want to do, and I choose not to do the things that bore me, or that I don't want to do.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, it's my column.
It's mine.
I don't have a fairness doctrine here.
Yeah, exactly.
It's whatever.
One of my papers really wants to know about the TV show.
Sure.
Tell me about that and how you feel about it.
Well, the TV show is, it's really kind of, the TV show is way out there on the West Coast, and I'm way back here on the East Coast.
We're separated in many ways, but it's based really loosely on two books I wrote.
The connection is the premise.
The guy in the TV show is a human writer who lives in Miami.
I'm a human writer.
Dame Dave.
Dame Dave, who lives in Miami.
Although the guy on the TV show has two sons.
Kind of narrows it down just a little bit.
Named Dave Barry, actually.
On the TV show, he has two sons.
I have only one son, which means for tax purposes, I can claim three sons.
That's the one big advantage.
But, you know, my books, my columns have no plot whatsoever.
So they ran out of plots early on.
They write their own show out there.
I like it.
I enjoy the show.
Which two books is it based on?
It's based on Dave Barry turns 40,
and Dave Barry's Greatest Hits.
And I liked the show.
I met the people.
I was even on it once.
I played the part of a person with no acting ability.
And I was very good in that role.
I was a natural.
And... Was it known that it was you?
Yeah.
Yeah, they... I have to confess, I don't watch... No, that's okay.
That's really...
Yeah, I had to play a scene with Harry Anderson where... Who I think is terrific.
He is very good.
I liked him.
I mean, I met him, and I really liked him.
He's every bit... He's just a nice, down-to-earth, regular person, which you always hear said about people, but he is.
And so I enjoyed that a lot.
But it really has very little to do with my actual life.
I mean, a lot of people think I write it.
And I'm thinking if I wrote it, then I wouldn't be a humor columnist anymore.
I'd be a guy writing a show about it.
You'd make that a ton more money, though.
I probably would.
They do send me a royalty check, I have to say.
They pay me a great check.
But so it's kind of... There are people, I guess, who believe that it... Well, does it change... People would believe that you write it.
But did it change expectations for the column at all?
Not really.
Not that I've noticed.
I mean, a lot of people, I think, who...
who read the column don't even know the television show is based on it.
I think a lot of people who watch the television show don't even know there's a real column.
They probably don't read.
Yeah, that's right.
They're television viewers.
But I haven't noticed that I haven't heard anything.
The one big change in my life has been that at least once per day, and sometimes as many as 50 times per day, somebody says to me, hey, you don't look a bit like Harry Anderson.
Yuck, yuck, yuck, yuck, yuck.
And I have to smile and pretend I've never heard that before.
Oh, aren't you that guy from Night Court?
Yuck, yuck, yuck, yuck, yuck.
Speaking of Night Court, John Larroquette is one of the people in my own book, who's a fanatical book collector.
Is he really?
Oh, yeah.
Very interesting story, too.
He's got the four Emmys.
He's a really interesting guy, I think, and a great comic actor.
I got a very nice profile in my book.
I like him a lot.
I mean, he's like his... He's very nice.
He seems very smart.
Very nice to my wife, who is with me.
I mean, just a gentleman knew me when we were out there.
How long has the show been playing?
This coming season will be its third season, so it's doing well.
And it's rated well?
It rates well.
They pick it up for the whole year.
When network is it?
I'm asking some questions.
No, no, CBS.
CBS, Monday nights, check your local listings.
I'm switching from the... Talk about the television shows there while I think of where I was going here.
Well, I've said virtually everything I have to say about the television show.
Do you watch it?
I do watch it, yeah.
I don't always see it because I'm traveling a lot, but I try to take it.
Is it a representation of your own life?
No.
Totally imaginary.
Yeah, I mean, as I say, the premise is the same.
And every now and then they'll... The premise is... That it's a human writer living in Miami.
But every now and then... Are you a single guy or whatever?
No, no, he's married.
He's married?
Yeah, he has two kids.
I have one.
Okay.
He has one dog.
I have two.
How about that?
What kinds of dogs?
I have stupid.
Two very stupid.
One big, one little boat.
Total combined working brain cells, four or five maybe tops.
I'm going to get the very nice dog.
One's like a mixed lab, and one's a little thing.
Where are you from?
I'm from, I grew up in suburban New York City, Armont, New York.
You're a New Yorker.
And I went to Haverford College, and then I went down to Miami.
Pennsylvania?
In Pennsylvania.
Where are Pennsylvania?
Haverford, H-A-V.
Is it near Allentown?
No.
No, well, it's on the main line.
Philadelphia.
Allentown's up here.
Philadelphia's down here.
I'll plug that in.
About 90 miles from Allentown.
No, no, no, but I tell them.
They want to know when they're in Pennsylvania.
I've been to Allentown.
My first publisher was Rodale Press, which is in Emmaus.
That was your first publisher?
Yeah, and I used to hang out in Allentown.
They do cookbooks.
They do.
Yeah, I know.
I was their only humor writer ever.
That's funny.
I know them out there.
They're nice people.
Yeah, they are.
Barbara Mason used to work for a little Dale Press.
She did.
I don't think she still does.
I don't think so.
She did pretty well as a writer.
I think she's done, yeah.
She doesn't need that.
And so then you went to Florida when?
In 1986, I moved down there.
Not a long time ago.
So all this really kind of happened to you very quickly, didn't it?
Yeah.
I was in my mid-30s, and I had left journalism.
Now, were you a straight journalist, so to speak?
Yeah.
Reporter type?
I was doing general assignment reporting for the Associated Press, which I quit in 1976, and I spent the next seven years teaching effective writing seminars to business people.
I traveled around the country because I needed a job, and I had a lot of free time on the job, so I wrote columns.
And you were down in Florida at this point?
Nope.
I was still in Pennsylvania, living in Philadelphia, suburban Philadelphia.
a town called Westchester, two words, and I started, I was writing a column for the local paper, and very much like you, next, I got a couple of other papers interested in it, and then it started, then the Miami Herald started running it regularly, and a couple of other bigger papers.
So you've never actually worked for the Herald?
No, they hired me in 1983.
They said, come work for us, and, you know, so I did.
On staff, but I didn't want to move to Miami.
So for the next three years, I lived in suburban Philadelphia.
That's terrific.
It was a great deal.
But then I came to like Miami, believe it or not, and moved there on purpose.
Like L.A.
too, believe it or not.
That's weird.
That's very weird.
So I moved to Miami in 1986, and I've been there since then.
But I've worked for the Herald since 1983.
Do you go in?
I go in maybe once a week to get mail, to talk to people, but I work at home.
How's Edna?
Edna, I don't see Edna.
Edna is no longer on the staff.
I do see her around on the writing circuit.
Edna is one of the Miamis.
It's funny, Miami has a real, it's gotten to be a real literary.
Carl Hyasson works for the paper, James Hall, Les Standiford, Paul Levine,
Just a bunch of people living right in the Miami era, writing mostly crime novels about Miami, which God knows we could write millions of crime novels about Miami.
Boston has a lot of crime novels.
Sure, yeah, Robert Parker.
Well, there are quite a few.
There's Linda Barnes, there's Bob Parker, there's George Higgins.
There's a couple of them.
Oh, that's right.
I forgot about George.
He's a very Boston guy.
Yeah, we have the same publishing home.
Pushing 3 o'clock.
Okay.
Well, I told—we should probably start walking, at least.
You want to sign my book?
Is it for you, Nick?
Of course it's for me.
All right.
I got a pen.
Yeah.
This is how my own book started.
So what kinds of things did you report on, Greg and David?
I was in general.
I mean, you know, I went to school board meetings, sewage board meetings.
I knew more about sewage treatment.
What's the difference between sewage and sewerage?
You know?
Oh, I do know.
Sewage is the pipe.
Sewage is the stuff flowing through the pipe.
Sewage is shit.
Sewage takes it away and treats it.
There you go.
How did you do that?
One of my first enemies told me that.
Okay, see that?
I got it wrong once in a story.
And the guy wrote back, sewage is shit.
Sewage takes it away and treats it.
So you never say a sewerage treatment plant.
No, because I need to be treating pipes.
That's right.
Please don't write that.
I'm not.
I'm...
I think we got some stuff here.
We'll be fine.
I'm used to doing interviews with Nadine Gordon.
Nick, you're a pro.
I try.
God bless, I try.
You know what I like about this interview?
It's going to be very easy to try.